Site Feedback
You are using an unsupported browser× 
You are using an unsupported browser. This web site is designed for the current versions of Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, or Safari. 
× 
Site Feedback
The Office of the Federal Register publishes documents on behalf of Federal agencies but does not have any authority over their programs. We recommend you directly contact the agency associated with the content in question. 



If you have comments or suggestions on how to improve the www.ecfr.gov website or have questions about using www.ecfr.gov, please choose the 'Website Feedback' button below. 
Website Feedback 
If you would like to comment on the current content, please use the 'Content Feedback' button below for instructions on contacting the issuing agency 
Content Feedback 
If you have questions for the Agency that issued the current document please contact the agency directly.
× 
Website Feedback
* Your Name
* Email
Attachment
* How can we help you?
* I am requesting technical help or providing website feedback
This contact form is only for website help or website suggestions. If you have questions or comments regarding a published document please contact the publishing agency. Comments or questions about document content can not be answered by OFR staff. Please do not provide confidential information or personal data. 
 
The National Archives and Records Administration is closed to normal operations due to a lack of appropriations. eCFR.gov will not be updated until we resume normal operations.

Browse 
Titles 
Agencies 
Incorporation by Reference 
Recent Updates 
Search 
Recent Changes 
Corrections 
Reader Aids 
Reader Aids Home 
Using the eCFR Point-in-Time System 
Understanding the eCFR 
Government Policy and OFR Procedures 
Developer Resources 
Recent Site Updates 
My eCFR 
My Subscriptions 
Sign Out 
Sign In / Sign Up 
   
Sign In / Sign Up 
Hi, Sign Out 
eCFR
The Electronic Code of Federal Regulations
Enhanced Content :: FR Reference
Enhanced content is provided to the user to provide additional context.
Enhanced Content :: FR Reference
Title 48 
This content is from the eCFR and is authoritative but unofficial.
Displaying title 48, up to date as of 9/29/2025. Title 48 was last amended 9/22/2025. 
view historical versions 
A drafting site is available for use when drafting amendatory language 
switch to drafting site 
 
Navigate by entering citations or phrases (eg: 1 CFR 1.1 49 CFR 172.101 Organization and Purpose 1/1.1 Regulation Y FAR). 
Choosing an item from citations and headings will bring you directly to the content. Choosing an item from full text search results will bring you to those results. Pressing enter in the search box will also bring you to search results. 
Background and more details are available in the Search & Navigation guide. 
   
  
   
  
  
Title 48 —Federal Acquisition Regulations System 
Chapter 1 —Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Subchapter E —General Contracting Requirements 
Part 31 —Contract Cost Principles and Procedures 
Subpart 31.2 —Contracts With Commercial Organizations 
31.201-2 
Previous 
Next 
Top 

Table of Contents
Enhanced Content - Table of Contents
The in-page Table of Contents is available only when multiple sections are being viewed. 
Use the navigation links in the gray bar above to view the table of contents that this content belongs to. 
Enhanced Content - Table of Contents
Details
Enhanced Content - Details
URL 
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-48/part-31/section-31.201-2 
Citation 
48 CFR 31.201-2 
Alternate reference 
FAR 31.201-2 
Agency 
Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council 



Part 31 
Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); 10 U.S.C. chapter 4 and 10 U.S.C. chapter 137 legacy provisions (see 10 U.S.C. 3016); and 51 U.S.C. 20113. 
Source:
48 FR 42301, Sept. 19, 1983, unless otherwise noted. 
Enhanced Content - Details
Print/PDF
Enhanced Content - Print
Generate PDF 
This content is from the eCFR and may include recent changes applied to the CFR. The official, published CFR, is updated annually and available below under "Published Edition". You can learn more about the process here. 
Enhanced Content - Print
Display Options
Enhanced Content - Display Options
Enhanced Content - Display Options
Subscribe
Enhanced Content - Subscribe
Subscribe to: 48 CFR 31.201-2






Via Email:  
Enhanced Content - Subscribe

Timeline
Enhanced Content - Timeline
No changes found for this content after 1/03/2017. 
Enhanced Content - Timeline
Go to Date
Enhanced Content - Go to Date
Date
 
 
 
Enhanced Content - Go to Date
Compare Dates
Enhanced Content - Compare Dates
Compare
 
 
to
 
 


 
Show changes as:red/greenpurple/orange
Show strike-through for removed contentyesno
Enhanced Content - Compare Dates

Published Edition
Enhanced Content - Published Edition
View the most recent official publication: 
View Title 48 on govinfo.gov 
View the PDF for 48 CFR 31.201-2 
These links go to the official, published CFR, which is updated annually. As a result, it may not include the most recent changes applied to the CFR. Learn more. 
Enhanced Content - Published Edition

Developer Tools
Enhanced Content - Developer Tools



Information and documentation can be found in our developer resources. 
Enhanced Content - Developer Tools
eCFR Content
The Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) is the official legal print publication containing the codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Electronic Code of Federal Regulations (eCFR) is a continuously updated online version of the CFR. It is not an official legal edition of the CFR.
Learn more about the eCFR, its status, and the editorial process.
31.201-2 Determining allowability.
(a) A cost is allowable only when the cost complies with all of the following requirements:
(1) Reasonableness.
(2) Allocability.
(3) Standards promulgated by the CAS Board, if applicable, otherwise, generally accepted accounting principles and practices appropriate to the circumstances.
(4) Terms of the contract.
(5) Any limitations set forth in this subpart.
(b) Certain cost principles in this subpart incorporate the measurement, assignment, and allocability rules of selected CAS and limit the allowability of costs to the amounts determined using the criteria in those selected standards. Only those CAS or portions of standards specifically made applicable by the cost principles in this subpart are mandatory unless the contract is CAS-covered (see 48 CFR 9903). Business units that are not otherwise subject to these standards under a CAS clause are subject to the selected standards only for the purpose of determining allowability of costs on Government contracts. Including the selected standards in the cost principles does not subject the business unit to any other CAS rules and regulations. The applicability of the CAS rules and regulations is determined by the CAS clause, if any, in the contract and the requirements of the standards themselves.
(c) When contractor accounting practices are inconsistent with this subpart 31.2, costs resulting from such inconsistent practices in excess of the amount that would have resulted from using practices consistent with this subpart are unallowable.
(d) A contractor is responsible for accounting for costs appropriately and for maintaining records, including supporting documentation, adequate to demonstrate that costs claimed have been incurred, are allocable to the contract, and comply with applicable cost principles in this subpart and agency supplements. The contracting officer may disallow all or part of a claimed cost that is inadequately supported.
[48 FR 42301, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 57 FR 39590, Aug. 31, 1992; 61 FR 31656, June 20, 1996; 69 FR 17767, Apr. 5, 2004] 
eCFR Content
Pages
Home 
Titles 
Search 
Recent Changes 
Corrections 
Reader Aids
Using the eCFR Point-in-Time System 
Understanding the eCFR 
Government Policy and OFR Procedures 
Developer Resources 
Recent Site Updates 
Information
About This Site 
Legal Status 
Privacy 
Accessibility 
FOIA 
No Fear Act 
Continuity Information 
My eCFR
My Subscriptions 
Sign In / Sign Up 
