Site Feedback
You are using an unsupported browser× 
You are using an unsupported browser. This web site is designed for the current versions of Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, or Safari. 
× 
Site Feedback
The Office of the Federal Register publishes documents on behalf of Federal agencies but does not have any authority over their programs. We recommend you directly contact the agency associated with the content in question. 



If you have comments or suggestions on how to improve the www.ecfr.gov website or have questions about using www.ecfr.gov, please choose the 'Website Feedback' button below. 
Website Feedback 
If you would like to comment on the current content, please use the 'Content Feedback' button below for instructions on contacting the issuing agency 
Content Feedback 
If you have questions for the Agency that issued the current document please contact the agency directly.
× 
Website Feedback
* Your Name
* Email
Attachment
* How can we help you?
* I am requesting technical help or providing website feedback
This contact form is only for website help or website suggestions. If you have questions or comments regarding a published document please contact the publishing agency. Comments or questions about document content can not be answered by OFR staff. Please do not provide confidential information or personal data. 
 
The National Archives and Records Administration is closed to normal operations due to a lack of appropriations. eCFR.gov will not be updated until we resume normal operations.

Browse 
Titles 
Agencies 
Incorporation by Reference 
Recent Updates 
Search 
Recent Changes 
Corrections 
Reader Aids 
Reader Aids Home 
Using the eCFR Point-in-Time System 
Understanding the eCFR 
Government Policy and OFR Procedures 
Developer Resources 
Recent Site Updates 
My eCFR 
My Subscriptions 
Sign Out 
Sign In / Sign Up 
   
Sign In / Sign Up 
Hi, Sign Out 
eCFR
The Electronic Code of Federal Regulations
Enhanced Content :: FR Reference
Enhanced content is provided to the user to provide additional context.
Enhanced Content :: FR Reference
Title 48 
This content is from the eCFR and is authoritative but unofficial.
Displaying title 48, up to date as of 9/29/2025. Title 48 was last amended 9/22/2025. 
view historical versions 
A drafting site is available for use when drafting amendatory language 
switch to drafting site 
 
Navigate by entering citations or phrases (eg: 1 CFR 1.1 49 CFR 172.101 Organization and Purpose 1/1.1 Regulation Y FAR). 
Choosing an item from citations and headings will bring you directly to the content. Choosing an item from full text search results will bring you to those results. Pressing enter in the search box will also bring you to search results. 
Background and more details are available in the Search & Navigation guide. 
   
  
   
  
  
Title 48 —Federal Acquisition Regulations System 
Chapter 1 —Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Subchapter E —General Contracting Requirements 
Part 31 —Contract Cost Principles and Procedures 
Subpart 31.2 —Contracts With Commercial Organizations 
31.203 
Previous 
Next 
Top 

Table of Contents
Enhanced Content - Table of Contents
The in-page Table of Contents is available only when multiple sections are being viewed. 
Use the navigation links in the gray bar above to view the table of contents that this content belongs to. 
Enhanced Content - Table of Contents
Details
Enhanced Content - Details
URL 
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-48/part-31/section-31.203 
Citation 
48 CFR 31.203 
Alternate reference 
FAR 31.203 
Agency 
Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council 



Part 31 
Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); 10 U.S.C. chapter 4 and 10 U.S.C. chapter 137 legacy provisions (see 10 U.S.C. 3016); and 51 U.S.C. 20113. 
Source:
48 FR 42301, Sept. 19, 1983, unless otherwise noted. 
Enhanced Content - Details
Print/PDF
Enhanced Content - Print
Generate PDF 
This content is from the eCFR and may include recent changes applied to the CFR. The official, published CFR, is updated annually and available below under "Published Edition". You can learn more about the process here. 
Enhanced Content - Print
Display Options
Enhanced Content - Display Options
Enhanced Content - Display Options
Subscribe
Enhanced Content - Subscribe
Subscribe to: 48 CFR 31.203






Via Email:  
Enhanced Content - Subscribe

Timeline
Enhanced Content - Timeline
No changes found for this content after 1/03/2017. 
Enhanced Content - Timeline
Go to Date
Enhanced Content - Go to Date
Date
 
 
 
Enhanced Content - Go to Date
Compare Dates
Enhanced Content - Compare Dates
Compare
 
 
to
 
 


 
Show changes as:red/greenpurple/orange
Show strike-through for removed contentyesno
Enhanced Content - Compare Dates

Published Edition
Enhanced Content - Published Edition
View the most recent official publication: 
View Title 48 on govinfo.gov 
View the PDF for 48 CFR 31.203 
These links go to the official, published CFR, which is updated annually. As a result, it may not include the most recent changes applied to the CFR. Learn more. 
Enhanced Content - Published Edition

Developer Tools
Enhanced Content - Developer Tools



Information and documentation can be found in our developer resources. 
Enhanced Content - Developer Tools
eCFR Content
The Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) is the official legal print publication containing the codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Electronic Code of Federal Regulations (eCFR) is a continuously updated online version of the CFR. It is not an official legal edition of the CFR.
Learn more about the eCFR, its status, and the editorial process.
31.203 Indirect costs.
(a) For contracts subject to full CAS coverage, allocation of indirect costs shall be based on the applicable provisions. For all other contracts, the applicable CAS provisions in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section apply.
(b) After direct costs have been determined and charged directly to the contract or other work, indirect costs are those remaining to be allocated to intermediate or two or more final cost objectives. No final cost objective shall have allocated to it as an indirect cost any cost, if other costs incurred for the same purpose, in like circumstances, have been included as a direct cost of that or any other final cost objective.
(c) The contractor shall accumulate indirect costs by logical cost groupings with due consideration of the reasons for incurring such costs. The contractor shall determine each grouping so as to permit use of an allocation base that is common to all cost objectives to which the grouping is to be allocated. The base selected shall allocate the grouping on the basis of the benefits accruing to intermediate and final cost objectives. When substantially the same results can be achieved through less precise methods, the number and composition of cost groupings should be governed by practical considerations and should not unduly complicate the allocation.
(d) Once an appropriate base for allocating indirect costs has been accepted, the contractor shall not fragment the base by removing individual elements. All items properly includable in an indirect cost base shall bear a pro rata share of indirect costs irrespective of their acceptance as Government contract costs. For example, when a cost input base is used for the allocation of G&A costs, the contractor shall include in the base all items that would properly be part of the cost input base, whether allowable or unallowable, and these items shall bear their pro rata share of G&A costs.
(e) The method of allocating indirect costs may require revision when there is a significant change in the nature of the business, the extent of subcontracting, fixed-asset improvement programs, inventories, the volume of sales and production, manufacturing processes, the contractor's products, or other relevant circumstances.
(f) Separate cost groupings for costs allocable to offsite locations may be necessary to permit equitable distribution of costs on the basis of the benefits accruing to the several cost objectives.
(g) A base period for allocating indirect costs is the cost accounting period during which such costs are incurred and accumulated for allocation to work performed in that period.
(1) For contracts subject to full or modified CAS coverage, the contractor shall follow the criteria and guidance in 48 CFR 9904.406 for selecting the cost accounting periods to be used in allocating indirect costs.
(2) For contracts other than those subject to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the base period for allocating indirect costs shall be the contractor's fiscal year used for financial reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The fiscal year will normally be 12 months, but a different period may be appropriate (e.g., when a change in fiscal year occurs due to a business combination or other circumstances).
(h) Special care should be exercised in applying the principles of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section when Government-owned contractor-operated (GOCO) plants are involved. The distribution of corporate, division or branch office G&A expenses to such plants operating with little or no dependence on corporate administrative activities may require more precise cost groupings, detailed accounts screening, and carefully developed distribution bases.
(i) Indirect costs that meet the definition of “excessive pass-through charge” in 52.215-23, are unallowable.
[69 FR 17767, Apr. 5, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 52855, Oct. 14, 2009] 
eCFR Content
Pages
Home 
Titles 
Search 
Recent Changes 
Corrections 
Reader Aids
Using the eCFR Point-in-Time System 
Understanding the eCFR 
Government Policy and OFR Procedures 
Developer Resources 
Recent Site Updates 
Information
About This Site 
Legal Status 
Privacy 
Accessibility 
FOIA 
No Fear Act 
Continuity Information 
My eCFR
My Subscriptions 
Sign In / Sign Up 
