Site Feedback
You are using an unsupported browser× 
You are using an unsupported browser. This web site is designed for the current versions of Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, or Safari. 
× 
Site Feedback
The Office of the Federal Register publishes documents on behalf of Federal agencies but does not have any authority over their programs. We recommend you directly contact the agency associated with the content in question. 



If you have comments or suggestions on how to improve the www.ecfr.gov website or have questions about using www.ecfr.gov, please choose the 'Website Feedback' button below. 
Website Feedback 
If you would like to comment on the current content, please use the 'Content Feedback' button below for instructions on contacting the issuing agency 
Content Feedback 
If you have questions for the Agency that issued the current document please contact the agency directly.
× 
Website Feedback
* Your Name
* Email
Attachment
* How can we help you?
* I am requesting technical help or providing website feedback
This contact form is only for website help or website suggestions. If you have questions or comments regarding a published document please contact the publishing agency. Comments or questions about document content can not be answered by OFR staff. Please do not provide confidential information or personal data. 
 
The National Archives and Records Administration is closed to normal operations due to a lack of appropriations. eCFR.gov will not be updated until we resume normal operations.

Browse 
Titles 
Agencies 
Incorporation by Reference 
Recent Updates 
Search 
Recent Changes 
Corrections 
Reader Aids 
Reader Aids Home 
Using the eCFR Point-in-Time System 
Understanding the eCFR 
Government Policy and OFR Procedures 
Developer Resources 
Recent Site Updates 
My eCFR 
My Subscriptions 
Sign Out 
Sign In / Sign Up 
   
Sign In / Sign Up 
Hi, Sign Out 
eCFR
The Electronic Code of Federal Regulations
Enhanced Content :: FR Reference
Enhanced content is provided to the user to provide additional context.
Enhanced Content :: FR Reference
Title 48 
This content is from the eCFR and is authoritative but unofficial.
Displaying title 48, up to date as of 9/29/2025. Title 48 was last amended 9/22/2025. 
view historical versions 
A drafting site is available for use when drafting amendatory language 
switch to drafting site 
 
Navigate by entering citations or phrases (eg: 1 CFR 1.1 49 CFR 172.101 Organization and Purpose 1/1.1 Regulation Y FAR). 
Choosing an item from citations and headings will bring you directly to the content. Choosing an item from full text search results will bring you to those results. Pressing enter in the search box will also bring you to search results. 
Background and more details are available in the Search & Navigation guide. 
   
  
   
  
  
Title 48 —Federal Acquisition Regulations System 
Chapter 1 —Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Subchapter C —Contracting Methods and Contract Types 
Part 16 —Types of Contracts 
Subpart 16.3 —Cost-Reimbursement Contracts 
16.306 
Previous 
Next 
Top 

Table of Contents
Enhanced Content - Table of Contents
The in-page Table of Contents is available only when multiple sections are being viewed. 
Use the navigation links in the gray bar above to view the table of contents that this content belongs to. 
Enhanced Content - Table of Contents
Details
Enhanced Content - Details
URL 
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-48/part-16/section-16.306 
Citation 
48 CFR 16.306 
Alternate reference 
FAR 16.306 
Agency 
Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council 



Part 16 
Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); 10 U.S.C. chapter 4 and 10 U.S.C. chapter 137 legacy provisions (see 10 U.S.C. 3016); and 51 U.S.C. 20113. 
Source:
48 FR 42219, Sept. 19, 1983, unless otherwise noted. 
Enhanced Content - Details
Print/PDF
Enhanced Content - Print
Generate PDF 
This content is from the eCFR and may include recent changes applied to the CFR. The official, published CFR, is updated annually and available below under "Published Edition". You can learn more about the process here. 
Enhanced Content - Print
Display Options
Enhanced Content - Display Options
Enhanced Content - Display Options
Subscribe
Enhanced Content - Subscribe
Subscribe to: 48 CFR 16.306






Via Email:  
Enhanced Content - Subscribe

Timeline
Enhanced Content - Timeline
No changes found for this content after 1/03/2017. 
Enhanced Content - Timeline
Go to Date
Enhanced Content - Go to Date
Date
 
 
 
Enhanced Content - Go to Date
Compare Dates
Enhanced Content - Compare Dates
Compare
 
 
to
 
 


 
Show changes as:red/greenpurple/orange
Show strike-through for removed contentyesno
Enhanced Content - Compare Dates

Published Edition
Enhanced Content - Published Edition
View the most recent official publication: 
View Title 48 on govinfo.gov 
View the PDF for 48 CFR 16.306 
These links go to the official, published CFR, which is updated annually. As a result, it may not include the most recent changes applied to the CFR. Learn more. 
Enhanced Content - Published Edition

Developer Tools
Enhanced Content - Developer Tools



Information and documentation can be found in our developer resources. 
Enhanced Content - Developer Tools
eCFR Content
The Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) is the official legal print publication containing the codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Electronic Code of Federal Regulations (eCFR) is a continuously updated online version of the CFR. It is not an official legal edition of the CFR.
Learn more about the eCFR, its status, and the editorial process.
16.306 Cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts.
(a) Description. A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract is a cost-reimbursement contract that provides for payment to the contractor of a negotiated fee that is fixed at the inception of the contract. The fixed fee does not vary with actual cost, but may be adjusted as a result of changes in the work to be performed under the contract. This contract type permits contracting for efforts that might otherwise present too great a risk to contractors, but it provides the contractor only a minimum incentive to control costs.
(b) Application. 
(1) A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract is suitable for use when the conditions of 16.301-2 are present and, for example—
(i) The contract is for the performance of research or preliminary exploration or study, and the level of effort required is unknown; or
(ii) The contract is for development and test, and using a cost-plus- incentive-fee contract is not practical.
(2) A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract normally should not be used in development of major systems (see part 34) once preliminary exploration, studies, and risk reduction have indicated a high degree of probability that the development is achievable and the Government has established reasonably firm performance objectives and schedules.
(c) Limitations. No cost-plus-fixed-fee contract shall be awarded unless the contracting officer complies with all limitations in 15.404-4(c)(4)(i) and 16.301-3.
(d) Completion and term forms. A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract may take one of two basic forms—completion or term.
(1) The completion form describes the scope of work by stating a definite goal or target and specifying an end product. This form of contract normally requires the contractor to complete and deliver the specified end product (e.g., a final report of research accomplishing the goal or target) within the estimated cost, if possible, as a condition for payment of the entire fixed fee. However, in the event the work cannot be completed within the estimated cost, the Government may require more effort without increase in fee, provided the Government increases the estimated cost.
(2) The term form describes the scope of work in general terms and obligates the contractor to devote a specified level of effort for a stated time period. Under this form, if the performance is considered satisfactory by the Government, the fixed fee is payable at the expiration of the agreed-upon period, upon contractor statement that the level of effort specified in the contract has been expended in performing the contract work. Renewal for further periods of performance is a new acquisition that involves new cost and fee arrangements.
(3) Because of the differences in obligation assumed by the contractor, the completion form is preferred over the term form whenever the work, or specific milestones for the work, can be defined well enough to permit development of estimates within which the contractor can be expected to complete the work.
(4) The term form shall not be used unless the contractor is obligated by the contract to provide a specific level of effort within a definite time period.
[48 FR 42219, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 1742, Jan. 11, 1985; 50 FR 52429, Dec. 23, 1985; 60 FR 37777, July 21, 1995; 62 FR 236, Jan. 2, 1997; 63 FR 34073, June 22, 1998] 
eCFR Content
Pages
Home 
Titles 
Search 
Recent Changes 
Corrections 
Reader Aids
Using the eCFR Point-in-Time System 
Understanding the eCFR 
Government Policy and OFR Procedures 
Developer Resources 
Recent Site Updates 
Information
About This Site 
Legal Status 
Privacy 
Accessibility 
FOIA 
No Fear Act 
Continuity Information 
My eCFR
My Subscriptions 
Sign In / Sign Up 
